Readme.md, before:

# DIY - Ublox NEO-M9N GPS module

# Introduction
After too many bad experience with cheap clone GPS's, I wanted a reliable GPS unit which used the M9N Ublox chip and had a build in filter for removing noise on the input power (+5V). I was not able to find this so I decided to design one myself.

![GPS overview](images/NEO-M9N_gps_overview.png)

# Features:
- Uses [M9N Ublox GPS module](https://content.u-blox.com/sites/default/files/NEO-M9N-00B_DataSheet_UBX-19014285.pdf).
- Build in LDO, input voltage (3.3V-5V).
- Build in EMI Low Pass Filter on power supply input (~40dB att. @ GPS frequency’s).
- Form factor of 25x25x8mm 
- Weight ~20gram.
- Price: ~$30-$40USD, when building 10pcs.

# Performance test:
## Ground test of NEO-M9N 25x25mm vs HGLRC NEO-M8N 18x18mm (using car):
Each GPS was mounted in each wing of my AR-Wing Pro and connected to the FC.
![Ground test](images/testsetup1_M9NvsM8N.png)

---
**GPS Config**\
05/05/2022 08.59.36 : u-blox 1 HW: 00080000 SW: ROM CORE 3.01 (107888)\
05/05/2022 08.59.34 : GPS: u-blox 1 saving config\
05/05/2022 08.59.34 : u-blox 2 HW: 00190000 SW: EXT CORE 4.04 (7f89f7)\
05/05/2022 08.59.20 : GPS 2: detected as u-blox at 230400 baud\
05/05/2022 08.59.20 : GPS 1: detected as u-blox at 230400 baud

---

The Wing was placed on the dashboard of my car while I drove around. The results are:\
![Ground test results Nsats](images/testsetup1_M9NvsM8N_results_Nstats.png)\
![Ground test results HDop](images/testsetup1_M9NvsM8N_results_Hdop.png)

### Conclusion (Ground test)
The M9N with the bigger antenna and power filter out performs the M8N.
 
# Revision
Version V1.00 - First Release.

Commit message:

Added flight test data results and updated Readme

Readme.md, after:

# DIY - Ublox NEO-M9N GPS module

# Introduction
After too many bad experience with cheap clone GPS's, I wanted a reliable GPS unit which used the M9N Ublox chip and had a build in filter for removing noise on the input power (+5V). I was not able to find this so I decided to design one myself.

![GPS overview](images/NEO-M9N_gps_overview.png)

# Features:
- Uses [M9N Ublox GPS module](https://content.u-blox.com/sites/default/files/NEO-M9N-00B_DataSheet_UBX-19014285.pdf).
- Build in LDO, input voltage (3.3V-5V).
- Build in EMI Low Pass Filter on power supply input (~40dB att. @ GPS frequency’s).
- Form factor of 25x25x8mm 
- Weight ~20gram.
- Price: ~$30-$40USD, when building 10pcs.

# Performance test:
## Ground test of NEO-M9N 25x25mm vs HGLRC NEO-M8N 18x18mm (using car):
Each GPS was mounted in each wing of my AR-Wing Pro and connected to the FC.
![Ground test](images/testsetup1_M9NvsM8N.png)

---
**GPS Config**\
05/05/2022 08.59.36 : u-blox 1 HW: 00080000 SW: ROM CORE 3.01 (107888)\
05/05/2022 08.59.34 : GPS: u-blox 1 saving config\
05/05/2022 08.59.34 : u-blox 2 HW: 00190000 SW: EXT CORE 4.04 (7f89f7)\
05/05/2022 08.59.20 : GPS 2: detected as u-blox at 230400 baud\
05/05/2022 08.59.20 : GPS 1: detected as u-blox at 230400 baud

---

The Wing was placed on the dashboard of my car while I drove around. The results are:\
![Ground test results Nsats](images/testsetup1_M9NvsM8N_results_Nstats.png)\
![Ground test results HDop](images/testsetup1_M9NvsM8N_results_Hdop.png)

### Conclusion (Ground test)
The M9N with the bigger antenna and power filter out performs the M8N.

## Flight test NEO-M9N 25x25mm
The following plane was used for the test:
![GPS overview](images/flighttestsetup1.png)

### Conclusion (flight test)
Again the M9N performed really well. Number of satellites around 27 and a Hdop around 0.6.

![GPS overview](images/flight_testresults.png)
 
# Revision
Version V1.00 - First Release.
